---
layout: default
title: A New Kind of Science
permalink: /blog_new_science/
---

Many years ago, for those of you who don't remember a time when Mathematica was widely regarded as magic, Stephen Wolfram published a book called [A New Kind of Science](https://www.wolframscience.com/). It is largely a look at the wonders of the 'computational universe' a place where the consequence of numerical laws can be 'discovered.' My physics brethren and I were pretty annoyed by this book because he went a little farther than illustrating the neat things you can do in a computational sandbox universe, and made claims that you could say everything you needed to about the real universe from computational experiments.

I may be oversimplifying his prinicple of 'Computational Equivalence,' but it's not really the point of this post. In my current work with Data Science and trying to break into that world, I've thought a lot about how different the type of science I practiced as an experimental physicist is. In our new AI world, filled with predictive models, and deep fakes, and deep dreams, it's easy to feel that maybe Wolfram was more right than a number of us gave him credit for. In this new type of science, reductive laws are largely abandoned for the most accurate models. Sure, a perceptron in a neural net is guided by deterministic behavior, but you really have no idea how the model will look until you train it. In other words, your model is discovering patterns that you are unable to find yourself. After all, if you could find all the relevant patterns yourself, why would you need to train a model?

Another reason I've been thinking about this is the simple fact that being a Data Scientist seems to be an increasingly attractive job as compared to a scientist. Scientists of all disciplines require more school, make less money, and typically do not produce results that are easily understandable by the lay audience as either 'cool' or 'scary'. Yet, without scientists, much of the potential of data science will remain fantasy.

The first step for a novice data scientist is typically to 'find a public data set.' Every time I see the words 'public data set' I feel like a farmer watching food being thrown in the trash. The amount of work that goes into producing a large, high quality data set is enormous. There's a reason that things like CIFAR-10 get used over and over again, it's not just about having a benchmark, it's about scarcity of good data. I feel that there needs to be a greater appreciation that web-scraping won't really cut it in all circumstances, there needs to be some incentive to produce good data. In other words, a good data scientist can turn messy data into clean insights, but a good data scientist could also turn good data into excellent insights. What you put into your model matters, and if you are unwilling to get your hands dirty to collect the data you need, then you should find someone who can, and they should get paid.

